---
title: "Augest 2022 Stream"
date: 2022-08-15
---

Q: What is the appeal of repeating nursery rhyme to young children?

---

Young children do not have the mental model to understand affordance of a toy. Hence products for kids are almost never used the way they are intended to be used. Toys should be designed to be all enabling, and provide multiple level of abstraction for kids with varying abilities. 

Case study: Anjali with book and stacking toy

---


A good chunk of a doctor's work includes repeating similar procedures on slightly different patients - I don't think this is any more complex than the work of an architect. The current pipeline to becoming a doctor is unnecessarily competitive. And it seems to me that this is deliberately created for economic benefits. Putting so many people through a rat race just to retain artificial prestige seems like a huge waste of human talent. 

--- 

Our tendency to conform as adults is largely shaped by the the rigidity of our social circles when we are younger. As kids, we are exposed to a finite set of people and this group of people remain relatively unchange. This makes being able to fit in extremely crucial, which consequently stunts individuality and originality. Giving kids the mean to find their people (in a safe way) seems crucial. 

Another way to go about this is shaping children's value system to value things like kindness, rather than 

---
It seems to me that an understanding of our physical surroundings and its mechanisms is a necessary precuresor to the understanding of more abstract concepts. 

Here's a possible hypothesis:

We live in a physical world, we are able to manipulate physcial objects, and watched other people do the same. We collect data points and develope an intuitive understanding of physical concepts. Which then becomes an interface to more abstract concepts. A example of this would be using blocks to learn counting. Blocks are physical. Numbers are abstract. 

I wonder how much our fine-motor ability comes in our way of understanding more abstract knowledge. If we are able to fundamentally change the way we interact with this world, and somehow allow us to directly interface with abstract concepts without advance physical devleopment. Then perhaps we could speed up the rate of learning.

---

We are adversed to failure and boredom. It becomes seocnd nature for us to protect our kids from these experiences.

---

It seems difficult to introduce interactive machine assisted learning to young children (2-3), because they have yet to develope a standardized method for communication. Early educators are  special because their knowledge is very targeted towards what they practice. This is unlike someone who studies Physics, who can both be an engineer or a physics teacher. 

The main bulk of the human resouces in education should be devoted towards early education. 
Literacy is should be the main focus

---

Why am I thinking using tech in early years? What problem does it solve?
- There's a lot of variability in humans
- Use of tech enables interest driven learning 

---

The struggle of early years is identifying what young children need. Once the area of need is identified, teaching young children is generally low cost and non-technical. 